docs/concepts/serving/executor/index.md, before:

(executor-cookbook)=
# Executor

An {class}`~jina.Executor` is a self-contained microservice that performs a task on a `DocumentArray`. 

You can create an Executor by extending the `Executor` class and adding logic to endpoint methods.

There is a wide selection of pre-built Executors available on Jina AI's [Executor Hub](https://cloud.jina.ai/executors). See the {ref}`Hub section <jina-hub>` for more information.

## Why use Executors?

Once you've learned `DocumentArray`, you can use all its power and expressiveness to build a multimodal application.
But what if you want to go bigger? Organize your code into modules, serve and scale them independently as microservices? That's where Executors come in.

- Executors let you organize DocumentArray-based functions into logical entities that can share configuration state, following OOP.
- Executors can be easily containerized and shared with your colleagues using `jina hub push/pull`.
- Executors can be exposed as a service over gRPC using `~jina.Deployment`.
- Executors can be chained together to form a `~jina.Flow`.

## Minimum working example

```python
from jina import Executor, requests, DocumentArray, Document, Deployment


class MyExecutor(Executor):
    @requests
    def foo(self, docs, **kwargs):
        for d in docs:
            d.text = 'hello world'


with Deployment(uses=MyExecutor) as dep:
    response_docs = dep.post(on='/', inputs=DocumentArray([Document(text='hello')]))
    print(f'Text: {response_docs[0].text}')
```

```text
─────────────────────── 🎉 Deployment is ready to serve! ───────────────────────
╭────────────── 🔗 Endpoint ───────────────╮
│  ⛓     Protocol                    GRPC │
│  🏠       Local           0.0.0.0:55581  │
│  🔒     Private       192.168.0.5:55581  │
│  🌍      Public    158.181.77.236:55581  │
╰──────────────────────────────────────────╯
Text: hello world
```

```{toctree}
:hidden:

basics
create
add-endpoints
serve
dynamic-batching
health-check
hot-reload
file-structure
containerize
instrumentation
yaml-spec
```

Commit message:

docs: adapt Documentation with new docarray at center (#5941)
Signed-off-by: Joan Fontanals Martinez <joan.martinez@jina.ai>
Co-authored-by: samsja <55492238+samsja@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Scott Martens <70647348+scott-martens@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/concepts/serving/executor/index.md, after:

(executor-cookbook)=
# Executor

An {class}`~jina.Executor` is a self-contained microservice that performs a task on `Documents`. 

You can create an Executor by extending the `Executor` class and adding logic to endpoint methods.

## Why use Executors?

Once you've learned about `Documents` and `DocList` from [docarray](https://docs.docarray.org/), you can use all its power and expressiveness to build a multimodal application.
But what if you want to go bigger? Organize your code into modules, serve and scale them independently as microservices? That's where Executors come in.

- Executors let you organize functions into logical entities that can share configuration state, following OOP.
- Executors can be easily containerized and shared with your colleagues using `jina hub push/pull`.
- Executors can be exposed as a service over gRPC using `~jina.Deployment`.
- Executors can be chained together to form a `~jina.Flow`.

## Minimum working example

```python
from jina import Executor, requests, Deployment
from docarray import DocList
from docarray.documents import TextDoc


class MyExecutor(Executor):
    @requests
    def foo(self, docs: DocList[TextDoc], **kwargs) -> DocList[TextDoc]:
        for d in docs:
            d.text = 'hello world'
        return docs


with Deployment(uses=MyExecutor) as dep:
    response_docs = dep.post(on='/', inputs=DocList[TextDoc]([TextDoc(text='hello')]), return_type=DocList[TextDoc])
    print(f'Text: {response_docs[0].text}')
```

```text
─────────────────────── 🎉 Deployment is ready to serve! ───────────────────────
╭────────────── 🔗 Endpoint ───────────────╮
│  ⛓     Protocol                    GRPC │
│  🏠       Local           0.0.0.0:55581  │
│  🔒     Private       192.168.0.5:55581  │
│  🌍      Public    158.181.77.236:55581  │
╰──────────────────────────────────────────╯
Text: hello world
```

```{toctree}
:hidden:

basics
create
add-endpoints
serve
dynamic-batching
health-check
hot-reload
file-structure
containerize
instrumentation
yaml-spec
```
