docs/concepts/client/send-receive-data.md, before:

# Send & Receive Data

After a {class}`~jina.Client` has connected to a {class}`~jina.Flow`, it can send requests to the Flow using its {meth}`~jina.clients.mixin.PostMixin.post` method.
This expects as inputs the {ref}`Executor endpoint <exec-endpoint>` that you want to target, as well as a Document or Iterable of Documents:


````{tab} A single Document

```{code-block} python
---
emphasize-lines: 6
---
from docarray import Document

d1 = Document(content='hello')
client = Client(...)

client.post('/endpoint', d1)
```

````

````{tab} A list of Documents

```{code-block} python
---
emphasize-lines: 7
---
from docarray import Document

d1 = Document(content='hello')
d2 = Document(content='world')
client = Client(...)

client.post('/endpoint', [d1, d2])

```

````

````{tab} A DocumentArray

```{code-block} python
---
emphasize-lines: 6
---
from docarray import DocumentArray

da = DocumentArray.empty(10)
client = Client(...)

client.post('/endpoint', da)
```

````

````{tab} A Generator of Document

```{code-block} python
---
emphasize-lines: 3-5, 9
---
from docarray import Document

def doc_gen():
    for j in range(10):
        yield Document(content=f'hello {j}')
        
client = Client(...)

client.post('/endpoint', doc_gen)
```

````


````{tab} No Document

```{code-block} python
---
emphasize-lines: 3
---
client = Client(...)

client.post('/endpoint')
```

````



```{admonition} Caution
:class: caution
`Flow` also provides a `.post()` method that follows the same interface as `client.post()`.
However, once your solution is deployed remotely, the Flow interface is not present anymore.
Hence, `flow.post()` is not recommended outside of testing or debugging use cases.
```




## Send data in batches

Especially during indexing, a Client can send up to thousands or millions of Documents to a {class}`~jina.Flow`.
Those Documents are internally batched into a `Request`, providing a smaller memory footprint and faster response times thanks
to {ref}`callback functions <callback-functions>`.

The size of these batches can be controlled with the `request_size` keyword.
The default `request_size` is 100 Documents. The optimal size will depend on your use case.
```python
from jina import Flow, Client, Document, DocumentArray

with Flow() as f:
    client = Client(port=f.port)
    client.post('/', DocumentArray(Document() for _ in range(100)), request_size=10)
```


## Send data asynchronously

There is an async version of the Python Client which works with {meth}`~jina.clients.mixin.PostMixin.post` and {meth}`~jina.clients.mixin.MutateMixin.mutate`.

While the standard `Client` is also asynchronous under the hood, its async version exposes this fact to the outside world,
by allowing *coroutines* as input, and returning an *asynchronous iterator*.
This means you can iterate over Responses one by one, as they come in.

```python
import asyncio

from jina import Client, Flow, Document


async def async_inputs():
    for _ in range(10):
        yield Document()
        await asyncio.sleep(0.1)


async def run_client(port):
    client = Client(port=port, asyncio=True)
    async for resp in client.post('/', async_inputs, request_size=1):
        print(resp)


with Flow() as f:  # Using it as a Context Manager will start the Flow
    asyncio.run(run_client(f.port))
```

Async send is useful when calling a Flow from an Executor, as described in {ref}`async-executors`.

```python
from jina import Client, Executor, requests, DocumentArray


class DummyExecutor(Executor):

    c = Client(host='grpc://0.0.0.0:51234', asyncio=True)

    @requests
    async def process(self, docs: DocumentArray, **kwargs):
        self.c.post('/', docs)
```


## Send data to specific Executors

Usually a {class}`~jina.Flow` will send each request to all {class}`~jina.Executor`s with matching endpoints as configured. But the {class}`~jina.Client` also allows you to only target specific Executors in a Flow using the `target_executor` keyword. The request will then only be processed by the Executors which match the provided target_executor regex. Its usage is shown in the listing below.

```python
from jina import Client, Executor, Flow, requests, Document, DocumentArray


class FooExecutor(Executor):
    @requests
    async def foo(self, docs: DocumentArray, **kwargs):
        docs.append(Document(text=f'foo was here and got {len(docs)} document'))


class BarExecutor(Executor):
    @requests
    async def bar(self, docs: DocumentArray, **kwargs):
        docs.append(Document(text=f'bar was here and got {len(docs)} document'))


f = (
    Flow()
    .add(uses=FooExecutor, name='fooExecutor')
    .add(uses=BarExecutor, name='barExecutor')
)

with f:  # Using it as a Context Manager will start the Flow
    client = Client(port=f.port)
    docs = client.post(on='/', target_executor='bar*')
    print(docs.texts)
```
This will send the request to all Executors whose names start with 'bar', such as 'barExecutor'.
In the simplest case, you can specify a precise Executor name, and the request will be sent only to that single Executor.

## Use Unary or Streaming gRPC

The Flow with **gRPC** protocol implements the unary and the streaming RPC lifecycle for communicating with the clients. When sending more than one request using the batching or the iterator mechanism, the RPC lifecycle for the {meth}`~jina.clients.mixin.PostMixin.post` method can be controlled using the `stream` boolean method argument. By default the stream option is set to `False` which uses the unary RPC to send the data to the Flow. If the stream option is set to `True` the streaming RPC is used to send the data to the Flow.
Both RPC lifecycles are implemented to provide the flexibility for the clients. 


```{hint}
This option is only valid for **gRPC** protocol.

Refer to the gRPC [Performance Best Practices](https://grpc.io/docs/guides/performance/#general) guide for more implementations details and considerations.
```

## Returns

{meth}`~jina.clients.mixin.PostMixin.post` returns a `DocumentArray` containing all Documents flattened over all Requests. When setting `return_responses=True`, this behavior is changed to returning a list of {class}`~jina.types.request.Response` objects.

If a callback function is provided, `client.post()` will return none.


````{tab} Return as DocumentArray objects

```python
from jina import Flow, Client, Document

with Flow() as f:
    client = Client(port=f.port)
    docs = client.post(on='', inputs=Document(text='Hi there!'))
    print(docs)
    print(docs.texts)
```
```console  
<DocumentArray (length=1) at 140619524357664>
['Hi there!']
```

````
````{tab} Return as Response objects

```python
from jina import Flow, Client, Document

with Flow() as f:
    client = Client(port=f.port)
    resp = client.post(on='', inputs=Document(text='Hi there!'), return_responses=True)
    print(resp)
    print(resp[0].docs.texts)
```
```console 
[<jina.types.request.data.DataRequest ('header', 'parameters', 'routes', 'data') at 140619524354592>]
['Hi there!']
```

````
````{tab} Handle response via callback

```python
from jina import Flow, Client, Document

with Flow() as f:
    client = Client(port=f.port)
    resp = client.post(
        on='',
        inputs=Document(text='Hi there!'),
        on_done=lambda resp: print(resp.docs.texts),
    )
    print(resp)
```
```console
['Hi there!']
None
```

````

### Callbacks vs returns

Callback operates on every sub-request generated by `request_size`. The callback function consumes the response one by one. The old response is immediately free from the memory after the consumption.

When callback is not provided, the client accumulates all DocumentArray of all Requests before returning.
This means you will not receive results until all Requests have been processed, which is slower and requires more memory.


### Force the order of responses 

Note that the Flow processes Documents in an asynchronous and a distributed manner. The order of the Flow processing the requests may not be the same order as the Client sending them. Hence, the response order may also not be consistent as the sending order.

To force the order of the results to be deterministic and the same as when they are sent, passing `results_in_order` parameter to {meth}`~jina.clients.mixin.PostMixin.post`.

```python
import random
import time
from jina import Flow, Executor, requests, Client, DocumentArray, Document


class RandomSleepExecutor(Executor):
    @requests
    def foo(self, *args, **kwargs):
        rand_sleep = random.uniform(0.1, 1.3)
        time.sleep(rand_sleep)


f = Flow().add(uses=RandomSleepExecutor, replicas=3)
input_text = [f'ordinal-{i}' for i in range(180)]
input_da = DocumentArray([Document(text=t) for t in input_text])

with f:
    c = Client(port=f.port, protocol=f.protocol)
    output_da = c.post('/', inputs=input_da, request_size=10, results_in_order=True)
    for input, output in zip(input_da, output_da):
        assert input.text == output.text
```

Commit message:

docs: mention performance penalties when using streaming RPC

docs/concepts/client/send-receive-data.md, after:

# Send & Receive Data

After a {class}`~jina.Client` has connected to a {class}`~jina.Flow`, it can send requests to the Flow using its {meth}`~jina.clients.mixin.PostMixin.post` method.
This expects as inputs the {ref}`Executor endpoint <exec-endpoint>` that you want to target, as well as a Document or Iterable of Documents:


````{tab} A single Document

```{code-block} python
---
emphasize-lines: 6
---
from docarray import Document

d1 = Document(content='hello')
client = Client(...)

client.post('/endpoint', d1)
```

````

````{tab} A list of Documents

```{code-block} python
---
emphasize-lines: 7
---
from docarray import Document

d1 = Document(content='hello')
d2 = Document(content='world')
client = Client(...)

client.post('/endpoint', [d1, d2])

```

````

````{tab} A DocumentArray

```{code-block} python
---
emphasize-lines: 6
---
from docarray import DocumentArray

da = DocumentArray.empty(10)
client = Client(...)

client.post('/endpoint', da)
```

````

````{tab} A Generator of Document

```{code-block} python
---
emphasize-lines: 3-5, 9
---
from docarray import Document

def doc_gen():
    for j in range(10):
        yield Document(content=f'hello {j}')
        
client = Client(...)

client.post('/endpoint', doc_gen)
```

````


````{tab} No Document

```{code-block} python
---
emphasize-lines: 3
---
client = Client(...)

client.post('/endpoint')
```

````



```{admonition} Caution
:class: caution
`Flow` also provides a `.post()` method that follows the same interface as `client.post()`.
However, once your solution is deployed remotely, the Flow interface is not present anymore.
Hence, `flow.post()` is not recommended outside of testing or debugging use cases.
```




## Send data in batches

Especially during indexing, a Client can send up to thousands or millions of Documents to a {class}`~jina.Flow`.
Those Documents are internally batched into a `Request`, providing a smaller memory footprint and faster response times thanks
to {ref}`callback functions <callback-functions>`.

The size of these batches can be controlled with the `request_size` keyword.
The default `request_size` is 100 Documents. The optimal size will depend on your use case.
```python
from jina import Flow, Client, Document, DocumentArray

with Flow() as f:
    client = Client(port=f.port)
    client.post('/', DocumentArray(Document() for _ in range(100)), request_size=10)
```


## Send data asynchronously

There is an async version of the Python Client which works with {meth}`~jina.clients.mixin.PostMixin.post` and {meth}`~jina.clients.mixin.MutateMixin.mutate`.

While the standard `Client` is also asynchronous under the hood, its async version exposes this fact to the outside world,
by allowing *coroutines* as input, and returning an *asynchronous iterator*.
This means you can iterate over Responses one by one, as they come in.

```python
import asyncio

from jina import Client, Flow, Document


async def async_inputs():
    for _ in range(10):
        yield Document()
        await asyncio.sleep(0.1)


async def run_client(port):
    client = Client(port=port, asyncio=True)
    async for resp in client.post('/', async_inputs, request_size=1):
        print(resp)


with Flow() as f:  # Using it as a Context Manager will start the Flow
    asyncio.run(run_client(f.port))
```

Async send is useful when calling a Flow from an Executor, as described in {ref}`async-executors`.

```python
from jina import Client, Executor, requests, DocumentArray


class DummyExecutor(Executor):

    c = Client(host='grpc://0.0.0.0:51234', asyncio=True)

    @requests
    async def process(self, docs: DocumentArray, **kwargs):
        self.c.post('/', docs)
```


## Send data to specific Executors

Usually a {class}`~jina.Flow` will send each request to all {class}`~jina.Executor`s with matching endpoints as configured. But the {class}`~jina.Client` also allows you to only target specific Executors in a Flow using the `target_executor` keyword. The request will then only be processed by the Executors which match the provided target_executor regex. Its usage is shown in the listing below.

```python
from jina import Client, Executor, Flow, requests, Document, DocumentArray


class FooExecutor(Executor):
    @requests
    async def foo(self, docs: DocumentArray, **kwargs):
        docs.append(Document(text=f'foo was here and got {len(docs)} document'))


class BarExecutor(Executor):
    @requests
    async def bar(self, docs: DocumentArray, **kwargs):
        docs.append(Document(text=f'bar was here and got {len(docs)} document'))


f = (
    Flow()
    .add(uses=FooExecutor, name='fooExecutor')
    .add(uses=BarExecutor, name='barExecutor')
)

with f:  # Using it as a Context Manager will start the Flow
    client = Client(port=f.port)
    docs = client.post(on='/', target_executor='bar*')
    print(docs.texts)
```
This will send the request to all Executors whose names start with 'bar', such as 'barExecutor'.
In the simplest case, you can specify a precise Executor name, and the request will be sent only to that single Executor.

## Use Unary or Streaming gRPC

The Flow with **gRPC** protocol implements the unary and the streaming RPC lifecycle for communicating with the clients. When sending more than one request using the batching or the iterator mechanism, the RPC lifecycle for the {meth}`~jina.clients.mixin.PostMixin.post` method can be controlled using the `stream` boolean method argument. By default the stream option is set to `False` which uses the unary RPC to send the data to the Flow. If the stream option is set to `True` the streaming RPC is used to send the data to the Flow.
Both RPC lifecycles are implemented to provide the flexibility for the clients. 

Using unary or streaming should not change the behavior of request handling. There might be performance penalties when using the streaming RPC in the Python gRPC implementation.


```{hint}
This option is only valid for **gRPC** protocol.

Refer to the gRPC [Performance Best Practices](https://grpc.io/docs/guides/performance/#general) guide for more implementations details and considerations.
```

## Returns

{meth}`~jina.clients.mixin.PostMixin.post` returns a `DocumentArray` containing all Documents flattened over all Requests. When setting `return_responses=True`, this behavior is changed to returning a list of {class}`~jina.types.request.Response` objects.

If a callback function is provided, `client.post()` will return none.


````{tab} Return as DocumentArray objects

```python
from jina import Flow, Client, Document

with Flow() as f:
    client = Client(port=f.port)
    docs = client.post(on='', inputs=Document(text='Hi there!'))
    print(docs)
    print(docs.texts)
```
```console  
<DocumentArray (length=1) at 140619524357664>
['Hi there!']
```

````
````{tab} Return as Response objects

```python
from jina import Flow, Client, Document

with Flow() as f:
    client = Client(port=f.port)
    resp = client.post(on='', inputs=Document(text='Hi there!'), return_responses=True)
    print(resp)
    print(resp[0].docs.texts)
```
```console 
[<jina.types.request.data.DataRequest ('header', 'parameters', 'routes', 'data') at 140619524354592>]
['Hi there!']
```

````
````{tab} Handle response via callback

```python
from jina import Flow, Client, Document

with Flow() as f:
    client = Client(port=f.port)
    resp = client.post(
        on='',
        inputs=Document(text='Hi there!'),
        on_done=lambda resp: print(resp.docs.texts),
    )
    print(resp)
```
```console
['Hi there!']
None
```

````

### Callbacks vs returns

Callback operates on every sub-request generated by `request_size`. The callback function consumes the response one by one. The old response is immediately free from the memory after the consumption.

When callback is not provided, the client accumulates all DocumentArray of all Requests before returning.
This means you will not receive results until all Requests have been processed, which is slower and requires more memory.


### Force the order of responses 

Note that the Flow processes Documents in an asynchronous and a distributed manner. The order of the Flow processing the requests may not be the same order as the Client sending them. Hence, the response order may also not be consistent as the sending order.

To force the order of the results to be deterministic and the same as when they are sent, passing `results_in_order` parameter to {meth}`~jina.clients.mixin.PostMixin.post`.

```python
import random
import time
from jina import Flow, Executor, requests, Client, DocumentArray, Document


class RandomSleepExecutor(Executor):
    @requests
    def foo(self, *args, **kwargs):
        rand_sleep = random.uniform(0.1, 1.3)
        time.sleep(rand_sleep)


f = Flow().add(uses=RandomSleepExecutor, replicas=3)
input_text = [f'ordinal-{i}' for i in range(180)]
input_da = DocumentArray([Document(text=t) for t in input_text])

with f:
    c = Client(port=f.port, protocol=f.protocol)
    output_da = c.post('/', inputs=input_da, request_size=10, results_in_order=True)
    for input, output in zip(input_da, output_da):
        assert input.text == output.text
```
