# Basic

```{tip}
JCloud client is an opensource project. [Check here for its repository](https://github.com/jina-ai/jcloud). 
```

## Install

```bash
pip install jcloud
jc -h
```

In case `jc` is already occupied by another tool, please use `jcloud` instead. If your pip install doesn't register bash commands for you, you can run `python -m jcloud -h`.


## Login

```bash
jc login
```

You can use a Google/GitHub account to register and login. Without logging in, you can't do anything.

If you have no access to the web browser in your integration environment, you can set the Environment Variable `JINA_AUTH_TOKEN` using auth token before working with JCloud. Auth token can be generated by user login or Personal Access Token (PAT) creation, please visit [jina-auth](https://github.com/jina-ai/auth) for more information (`jc` includes `jina-auth` already).

## Deploy

In Jina's idiom, a project is a [Flow](https://docs.jina.ai/fundamentals/flow/), which represents an end-to-end task such as indexing, searching or recommending. In this README, we will use "project" and "Flow" interchangeably.

A Flow can have two types of file structure: a single YAML file or a project folder.

### A single YAML file

A self-contained YAML file, consisting of all configs at the [Flow](https://docs.jina.ai/fundamentals/flow/)-level and [Executor](https://docs.jina.ai/fundamentals/executor/)-level.

> All Executors' `uses` must follow the format `jinahub+docker://MyExecutor` (from [Jina Hub](https://hub.jina.ai)) to avoid any local file dependencies.

e.g.-

```yaml
# flow.yml
jtype: Flow
executors:
  - name: sentencizer
    uses: jinahub+docker://Sentencizer
```

To deploy,

```bash
jc deploy flow.yml
```

### A project folder

Just like a regular Python project, you can have sub-folders of Executor implementations; and a `flow.yml` on the top-level to connect all Executors together.

You can create an example local project using `jc new`. The default structure looks like:

```
.
├── .env
├── executor1
│   ├── config.yml
│   ├── executor.py
│   └── requirements.txt
└── flow.yml
```

where,

- `executor1` directory has all Executor related code/config. You can read the best practices for [file structures](https://docs.jina.ai/fundamentals/executor/executor-files/). Multiple such Executor directories can be created.
- `flow.yml` Your Flow YAML.
- `.env` All environment variables used during deployment.

To deploy,

```bash
jc deploy ./hello
```


The Flow is successfully deployed when you see:

```{figure} deploy.png
:width: 70%
```

You will get a Flow ID, say `173503c192`. This ID is required to manage, view logs and remove the Flow.

As this Flow is deployed with default gRPC gateway (feel free to change it to `http` or `websocket`), you can use `jina.Client` to access it:

```python
from jina import Client, Document

c = Client(host='https://173503c192.wolf.jina.ai')
print(c.post('/', Document(text='hello')))
```



## View logs

To watch the logs in realtime:

```bash
jc logs 173503c192
```

You can also stream logs for a particular Executor by passing its name:

```bash
jc logs 173503c192 --executor sentencizer
```

## Remove Flows

You can either remove a single Flow, multiple selected Flows or even all Flows by passing different kind of identifiers.

To remove a single Flow:

```bash
jc remove 173503c192
```

To remove multiple selected Flows:

```bash
jc remove 173503c192 887f6313e5 ddb8a2c4ef
```

To remove all Flows:

```bash
jc remove all
```

By default, removing multiple selected / all Flows would be in interactive mode where confirmation will be sent prior to
the deletion, to make it non-interactive to better suit your use case, set below environment variable before running the command:

```bash
export JCLOUD_NO_INTERACTIVE=1
```

## Get status

To get the status of a Flow:
```bash
jc status 15937a10bd
```

```{figure} status.png
:width: 70%
```

## Monitoring
To enable monitoring with the Flow, you can set `monitoring: true` in the Flow yaml and you'd be given access to a [Grafana](https://grafana.com/) dashboard.

To access the dashboard, get the status of the Flow first (see above section), at the bottom of the pane you should see the `dashboards` link. Visit the URL and you will find some basic metrics such as 'Number of Request Gateway Received' and 'Time elapsed between receiving a request and sending back the response':

```{figure} monitoring.png
:width: 70%
```

## List Flows

To list all the Flows you have:
```bash
jc list
```

You can see the ALIVE Flows deployed by you.

```{figure} list.png
:width: 70%
```


You can also filter your Flows by passing a status:

```bash
jc list --status FAILED
```


```{figure} list_failed.png
:width: 70%
```

Or see all the flows:

```bash
jc list --status ALL
```

```{figure} list_all.png
:width: 70%
```
