docs/concepts/executor/serve.md, before:

(serve-executor-standalone)=
# Serve

{class}`~jina.Executor`s can be served and accessed over gRPC, allowing you to use them to create a gRPC-based service for tasks like model inference, data processing, generative AI, and search services.

There are different options for deploying and running a standalone Executor:
* Run the Executor directly from Python with the {class}`~jina.orchestrate.deployments.Deployment` class
* Run the {meth}`~jina.Deployment.to_kubernetes_yaml()` method to generate Kubernetes deployment configuration files 
from an instance of {class}`~jina.orchestrate.deployments.Deployment`
* Run the static {meth}`~jina.serve.executors.BaseExecutor.to_docker_compose_yaml()` method to generate a Docker Compose service file

```{seealso}
Executors can also be combined to form a pipeline of microservices. We will see in a later step how 
to achieve this with the {ref}`Flow <flow-cookbook>`
```

````{admonition} Served vs. shared Executor
:class: hint

In Jina there are two ways of running standalone Executors: *Served Executors* and *shared Executors*.

- A **served Executor** is launched by one of the following methods: {class}`~jina.orchestrate.deployments.Deployment`, `to_kubernetes_yaml()`, or `to_docker_compose_yaml()`.
It resides behind a {ref}`Gateway <architecture-overview>` and can be directly accessed by a {ref}`Client <client>`.
It can also be used as part of a Flow.

- A **shared Executor** is launched using the [Jina CLI](../../cli/index.rst) and does *not* sit behind a Gateway.
It is intended to be used in one or more Flows. However, it can be also accessed by a {ref}`Client <client>`.
Because a shared Executor does not reside behind a Gataway, it requires fewer networking hops when used inside of a Flow.
However, it is not suitable for exposing a standalone service, outside the scope of a Flow.
````

## Serve directly
An {class}`~jina.Executor` can be served using the {class}`~jina.orchestrate.deployments.Deployment` class.

The {class}`~jina.orchestrate.deployments.Deployment` class aims to separate the deployment configuration from the serving logic.
In other words:
* the Executor cares about defining the logic to serve, which endpoints to define and what data to accept.
* the Deployment layer cares about how to orchestrate this service, how many replicas or shards, etc.

This separation also aims to enhance the reusability of Executors: the same implementation of an Executor can be 
served in multiple ways/configurations using Deployment.

````{tab} Python class

```python
from docarray import DocumentArray, Document
from jina import Executor, requests, Deployment


class MyExec(Executor):
    @requests
    def foo(self, docs: DocumentArray, **kwargs):
        docs[0].text = 'executed MyExec'  # custom logic goes here


with Deployment(uses=MyExec, port=12345, replicas=2) as dep:
    docs = dep.post(on='/foo', inputs=DocumentArray.empty(1))
    print(docs.texts)
```
````

````{tab} YAML configuration
`executor.yaml`:
```
jtype: MyExec
py_modules:
    - executor.py
```

```python
from jina import Deployment

with Deployment(uses='executor.yaml', port=12345, replicas=2) as dep:
    docs = dep.post(on='/foo', inputs=DocumentArray.empty(1))
    print(docs.texts)
```
````

````{tab} Hub Executor

```python
from jina import Deployment

with Deployment(uses='jinaai://my-username/MyExec/', port=12345, replicas=2) as dep:
    docs = dep.post(on='/foo', inputs=DocumentArray.empty(1))
    print(docs.texts)
```

````

````{tab} Docker image

```python
from jina import Deployment

with Deployment(uses='docker://my-executor-image', port=12345, replicas=2) as dep:
    docs = dep.post(on='/foo', inputs=DocumentArray.empty(1))
    print(docs.texts)
```

````

```text
─────────────────────── 🎉 Deployment is ready to serve! ───────────────────────
╭────────────── 🔗 Endpoint ────────────────╮
│  ⛓     Protocol                    GRPC  │
│  🏠       Local           0.0.0.0:12345   │
│  🔒     Private     192.168.3.147:12345   │
│  🌍      Public    87.191.159.105:12345   │
╰───────────────────────────────────────────╯
['executed MyExec']
```

````{hint}
You can use `dep.block()` to serve forever:

```python
with Deployment(uses=MyExec, port=12345, replicas=2) as dep:
    dep.block()
```
````

## Serve from the CLI

You can run an Executor from CLI. In this case, the Executor occupies one process. The lifetime of the Executor is the lifetime of the process.

### From a local Executor python class
```shell
jina executor --uses MyExec --py-modules executor.py
```


### From a local Executor YAML configuration

With `executor.py` containing the definition of `MyExec`, now creating a new file called `my-exec.yml`:

```yaml
jtype: MyExec
py_modules:
  - executor.py
```

This simply points Jina to our file and Executor class. Now we can run the command:

```bash
jina executor --uses my-exec.yml --port 12345
```

### From Executor Hub

In this example, we use [`CLIPTextEncoder`](https://cloud.jina.ai/executor/livtkbkg) to create embeddings for our Documents.

````{tab} With Docker

```bash
jina executor --uses jinaai+docker://jina-ai/CLIPTextEncoder
```

````

````{tab} Without Docker

```bash
jina executor --uses jinaai://jina-ai/CLIPTextEncoder
```

````

This might take a few seconds, but in the end you should be greeted with the
following message:

```bash
WorkerRuntime@ 1[L]: Executor CLIPTextEncoder started
```

Just like that, our Executor is up and running.

(kubernetes-executor)=
## Serve via Kubernetes
You can generate Kubernetes configuration files for your containerized Executor by using the {meth}`~jina.Deployment.to_kubernetes_yaml()` method:

```python
from jina import Deployment


dep = Deployment(
    uses='jinaai+docker://jina-ai/DummyHubExecutor', port_expose=8080, replicas=3
)
dep.to_kubernetes_yaml('/tmp/config_out_folder', k8s_namespace='my-namespace')
```
This will give the following output:
```text
INFO   executor@8065 K8s yaml files have been created under  [02/07/23 10:03:50]
       [b]/tmp/config_out_folder[/]. You can use it by                          
       running [b]kubectl apply -R -f                                           
       /tmp/config_out_folder[/] 
```
Afterwards, you can apply this configuration to your cluster:
```shell
kubectl apply -R -f /tmp/config_out_folder
```

The above example deploys the `DummyHubExecutor` from Executor Hub into your Kubernetes cluster.

````{admonition} Hint
:class: hint
The Executor you use needs to be already containerized and stored in a registry accessible from your Kubernetes cluster. We recommend [Executor Hub](https://cloud.jina.ai/executors) for this.
````

Once the Executor is deployed, you can expose a service:
```bash
kubectl expose deployment executor --name=executor-exposed --type LoadBalancer --port 80 --target-port 8080 -n my-namespace
sleep 60 # wait until the external ip is configured
```

Let's export the external IP address created and use it to send requests to the Executor. 
```bash
export EXTERNAL_IP=`kubectl get service executor-exposed -n my-namespace -o=jsonpath='{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}'`
```

Then, we can send requests using {meth}`~jina.Client`. Since Kubernetes load balancers cannot load balance streaming 
gRPC requests, it is recommended to set `stream=False` (note that this is only applicable for Kubernetes deployments of Executors):
```python
import os
from jina import Client, Document

host = os.environ['EXTERNAL_IP']
port = 80

client = Client(host=host, port=port)

print(client.post(on='/', inputs=Document(), stream=False).texts)
```

```text
['hello']
```

(external-shared-executor)=
### External and shared Executors
This type of standalone Executor can be either *external* or *shared*. By default, it is external.

- An external Executor is deployed alongside a {ref}`Gateway <architecture-overview>`. 
- A shared Executor has no Gateway.

Although both types can join a {class}`~jina.Flow`, use a shared Executor if the Executor is only intended to join Flows 
to have less network hops and save the costs of running running the Gateway in Kubernetes.

## Serve via Docker Compose

You can generate a Docker Compose service file for your containerized Executor with the static {meth}`~jina.serve.executors.BaseExecutor.to_docker_compose_yaml` method.

```python
from jina import Executor

Executor.to_docker_compose_yaml(
    output_path='/tmp/docker-compose.yml',
    port_expose=8080,
    uses='jinaai+docker://jina-ai/DummyHubExecutor',
)
```
```shell
docker-compose -f /tmp/docker-compose.yml up
```
The above example runs the `DummyHubExecutor` from Executor Hub locally on your computer using Docker Compose.

````{admonition} Hint
:class: hint
The Executor you use needs to be already containerized and stored in an accessible registry. We recommend [Executor Hub](https://cloud.jina.ai/executors) for this.
````

Commit message:

feat: add `to_docker_compose_yaml` to Deployment (#5673)
Signed-off-by: Joan Fontanals Martinez <joan.martinez@jina.ai>

docs/concepts/executor/serve.md, after:

(serve-executor-standalone)=
# Serve

{class}`~jina.Executor`s can be served and accessed over gRPC, allowing you to use them to create a gRPC-based service for tasks like model inference, data processing, generative AI, and search services.

There are different options for deploying and running a standalone Executor:
* Run the Executor directly from Python with the {class}`~jina.orchestrate.deployments.Deployment` class
* Run the {meth}`~jina.Deployment.to_kubernetes_yaml()` method to generate Kubernetes deployment configuration files 
from an instance of {class}`~jina.orchestrate.deployments.Deployment`
* Run the static {meth}`~jina.serve.executors.BaseExecutor.to_docker_compose_yaml()` method to generate a Docker Compose service file

```{seealso}
Executors can also be combined to form a pipeline of microservices. We will see in a later step how 
to achieve this with the {ref}`Flow <flow-cookbook>`
```

````{admonition} Served vs. shared Executor
:class: hint

In Jina there are two ways of running standalone Executors: *Served Executors* and *shared Executors*.

- A **served Executor** is launched by one of the following methods: {class}`~jina.orchestrate.deployments.Deployment`, `to_kubernetes_yaml()`, or `to_docker_compose_yaml()`.
It resides behind a {ref}`Gateway <architecture-overview>` and can be directly accessed by a {ref}`Client <client>`.
It can also be used as part of a Flow.

- A **shared Executor** is launched using the [Jina CLI](../../cli/index.rst) and does *not* sit behind a Gateway.
It is intended to be used in one or more Flows. However, it can be also accessed by a {ref}`Client <client>`.
Because a shared Executor does not reside behind a Gataway, it requires fewer networking hops when used inside of a Flow.
However, it is not suitable for exposing a standalone service, outside the scope of a Flow.
````

## Serve directly
An {class}`~jina.Executor` can be served using the {class}`~jina.orchestrate.deployments.Deployment` class.

The {class}`~jina.orchestrate.deployments.Deployment` class aims to separate the deployment configuration from the serving logic.
In other words:
* the Executor cares about defining the logic to serve, which endpoints to define and what data to accept.
* the Deployment layer cares about how to orchestrate this service, how many replicas or shards, etc.

This separation also aims to enhance the reusability of Executors: the same implementation of an Executor can be 
served in multiple ways/configurations using Deployment.

````{tab} Python class

```python
from docarray import DocumentArray, Document
from jina import Executor, requests, Deployment


class MyExec(Executor):
    @requests
    def foo(self, docs: DocumentArray, **kwargs):
        docs[0].text = 'executed MyExec'  # custom logic goes here


with Deployment(uses=MyExec, port=12345, replicas=2) as dep:
    docs = dep.post(on='/foo', inputs=DocumentArray.empty(1))
    print(docs.texts)
```
````

````{tab} YAML configuration
`executor.yaml`:
```
jtype: MyExec
py_modules:
    - executor.py
```

```python
from jina import Deployment

with Deployment(uses='executor.yaml', port=12345, replicas=2) as dep:
    docs = dep.post(on='/foo', inputs=DocumentArray.empty(1))
    print(docs.texts)
```
````

````{tab} Hub Executor

```python
from jina import Deployment

with Deployment(uses='jinaai://my-username/MyExec/', port=12345, replicas=2) as dep:
    docs = dep.post(on='/foo', inputs=DocumentArray.empty(1))
    print(docs.texts)
```

````

````{tab} Docker image

```python
from jina import Deployment

with Deployment(uses='docker://my-executor-image', port=12345, replicas=2) as dep:
    docs = dep.post(on='/foo', inputs=DocumentArray.empty(1))
    print(docs.texts)
```

````

```text
─────────────────────── 🎉 Deployment is ready to serve! ───────────────────────
╭────────────── 🔗 Endpoint ────────────────╮
│  ⛓     Protocol                    GRPC  │
│  🏠       Local           0.0.0.0:12345   │
│  🔒     Private     192.168.3.147:12345   │
│  🌍      Public    87.191.159.105:12345   │
╰───────────────────────────────────────────╯
['executed MyExec']
```

````{hint}
You can use `dep.block()` to serve forever:

```python
with Deployment(uses=MyExec, port=12345, replicas=2) as dep:
    dep.block()
```
````

## Serve from the CLI

You can run an Executor from CLI. In this case, the Executor occupies one process. The lifetime of the Executor is the lifetime of the process.

### From a local Executor python class
```shell
jina executor --uses MyExec --py-modules executor.py
```


### From a local Executor YAML configuration

With `executor.py` containing the definition of `MyExec`, now creating a new file called `my-exec.yml`:

```yaml
jtype: MyExec
py_modules:
  - executor.py
```

This simply points Jina to our file and Executor class. Now we can run the command:

```bash
jina executor --uses my-exec.yml --port 12345
```

### From Executor Hub

In this example, we use [`CLIPTextEncoder`](https://cloud.jina.ai/executor/livtkbkg) to create embeddings for our Documents.

````{tab} With Docker

```bash
jina executor --uses jinaai+docker://jina-ai/CLIPTextEncoder
```

````

````{tab} Without Docker

```bash
jina executor --uses jinaai://jina-ai/CLIPTextEncoder
```

````

This might take a few seconds, but in the end you should be greeted with the
following message:

```bash
WorkerRuntime@ 1[L]: Executor CLIPTextEncoder started
```

Just like that, our Executor is up and running.

(kubernetes-executor)=
## Serve via Kubernetes
You can generate Kubernetes configuration files for your containerized Executor by using the {meth}`~jina.Deployment.to_kubernetes_yaml()` method:

```python
from jina import Deployment


dep = Deployment(
    uses='jinaai+docker://jina-ai/DummyHubExecutor', port_expose=8080, replicas=3
)
dep.to_kubernetes_yaml('/tmp/config_out_folder', k8s_namespace='my-namespace')
```
This will give the following output:
```text
INFO   executor@8065 K8s yaml files have been created under  [02/07/23 10:03:50]
       [b]/tmp/config_out_folder[/]. You can use it by                          
       running [b]kubectl apply -R -f                                           
       /tmp/config_out_folder[/] 
```
Afterwards, you can apply this configuration to your cluster:
```shell
kubectl apply -R -f /tmp/config_out_folder
```

The above example deploys the `DummyHubExecutor` from Executor Hub into your Kubernetes cluster.

````{admonition} Hint
:class: hint
The Executor you use needs to be already containerized and stored in a registry accessible from your Kubernetes cluster. We recommend [Executor Hub](https://cloud.jina.ai/executors) for this.
````

Once the Executor is deployed, you can expose a service:
```bash
kubectl expose deployment executor --name=executor-exposed --type LoadBalancer --port 80 --target-port 8080 -n my-namespace
sleep 60 # wait until the external ip is configured
```

Let's export the external IP address created and use it to send requests to the Executor. 
```bash
export EXTERNAL_IP=`kubectl get service executor-exposed -n my-namespace -o=jsonpath='{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}'`
```

Then, we can send requests using {meth}`~jina.Client`. Since Kubernetes load balancers cannot load balance streaming 
gRPC requests, it is recommended to set `stream=False` (note that this is only applicable for Kubernetes deployments of Executors):
```python
import os
from jina import Client, Document

host = os.environ['EXTERNAL_IP']
port = 80

client = Client(host=host, port=port)

print(client.post(on='/', inputs=Document(), stream=False).texts)
```

```text
['hello']
```

(external-shared-executor)=
### External and shared Executors
This type of standalone Executor can be either *external* or *shared*. By default, it is external.

- An external Executor is deployed alongside a {ref}`Gateway <architecture-overview>`. 
- A shared Executor has no Gateway.

Although both types can join a {class}`~jina.Flow`, use a shared Executor if the Executor is only intended to join Flows 
to have less network hops and save the costs of running running the Gateway in Kubernetes.

## Serve via Docker Compose

You can generate a Docker Compose service file for your containerized Executor with the static {meth}`~jina.Deployment.to_docker_compose_yaml` method.

```python
from jina import Deployment


dep = Deployment(
    uses='jinaai+docker://jina-ai/DummyHubExecutor', port_expose=8080, replicas=3
)

dep.to_docker_compose_yaml(
    output_path='/tmp/docker-compose.yml',
)
```

```shell
docker-compose -f /tmp/docker-compose.yml up
```

The above example runs the `DummyHubExecutor` from Executor Hub locally on your computer using Docker Compose.

````{admonition} Hint
:class: hint
The Executor you use needs to be already containerized and stored in an accessible registry. We recommend [Executor Hub](https://cloud.jina.ai/executors) for this.
````

````{admonition} Hint
:class: hint
You can also export an Executor deployment to Docker compose YAML files using the CLI command, in case you define a Deployment YAML config:
`jina export docker-compose deployment.yml output_path`
````
