docs/concepts/orchestration/health-check.md, before:

# Health Check

Once an Orchestration is running, you can use `jina ping` [CLI](../../api/jina_cli.rst) to run a health check of the complete Flow/Deployment or (in the case of a Flow) individual Executors or Gateway.

Start an Orchestration in Python:

````{tab} Deployment
```python
from jina import Deployment

dep = Deployment(protocol='grpc', port=12345)

with dep:
    dep.block()
```
````
````{tab} Flow
```python
from jina import Flow

f =  Flow(protocol='grpc', port=12345).add(port=12346)

with f:
    f.block()
```
````

Check the readiness of the Orchestration:

````{tab} Deployment
```bash
jina ping deployment grpc://localhost:12345
```
````
````{tab} Flow
```bash
jina ping flow grpc://localhost:12345
```
````

You can also check the readiness of an Executor:

```{admonition}
:class: note
Since a Deployment contains only one Executor, this is equivalent to `jina ping deployment grpc://localhost:12346`.
```

```bash
jina ping executor localhost:12346
```

...or (only in the case of a Flow) the readiness of the Gateway service:

```bash
jina ping gateway  grpc://localhost:12345
```

When these commands succeed, you should see something like:

```text
INFO   JINA@28600 readiness check succeeded 1 times!!! 
```

```{admonition} Use in Kubernetes
:class: note
The CLI exits with code 1 when the readiness check is not successful, which makes it a good choice to be used as readinessProbe for Executor and Gateway when
deployed in Kubernetes.
```

Commit message:

docs(orchestration): reduce tabs on health check
Signed-off-by: Alex C-G <alexcg@outlook.com>

docs/concepts/orchestration/health-check.md, after:

# Health Check

Once an Orchestration is running, you can use `jina ping` [CLI](../../api/jina_cli.rst) to run a health check of the complete Flow/Deployment or (in the case of a Flow) individual Executors or Gateway.

````{tab} Deployment
Start an Orchestration in Python:

```python
from jina import Deployment

dep = Deployment(protocol='grpc', port=12345)

with dep:
    dep.block()
```

Check the readiness of the Orchestration:

```bash
jina ping deployment grpc://localhost:12345
```

You can also check the readiness of an Executor:

```{admonition}
:class: note
Since a Deployment contains only one Executor, this is equivalent to `jina ping deployment grpc://localhost:12346`.
```

```bash
jina ping executor localhost:12346
```
````
````{tab} Flow
Start an Orchestration in Python:

```python
from jina import Flow

f =  Flow(protocol='grpc', port=12345).add(port=12346)

with f:
    f.block()
```

Check the readiness of the Orchestration:

```bash
jina ping flow grpc://localhost:12345
```

You can also check the readiness of an Executor:

```bash
jina ping executor localhost:12346
```

...or (only in the case of a Flow) the readiness of the Gateway service:

```bash
jina ping gateway  grpc://localhost:12345
```
````

When these commands succeed, you should see something like:

```text
INFO   JINA@28600 readiness check succeeded 1 times!!! 
```

```{admonition} Use in Kubernetes
:class: note
The CLI exits with code 1 when the readiness check is not successful, which makes it a good choice to be used as readinessProbe for Executor and Gateway when
deployed in Kubernetes.
```
