docs/concepts/flow/index.md, before:

(flow-cookbook)=
# {fas}`network-wired` Flow

A {class}`~jina.Flow` orchestrates {class}`~jina.Executor`s into a processing pipeline to accomplish a task.
Documents "flow" through the pipeline and are processed by Executors.

You can think of Flow as an interface to configure and launch your {ref}`microservice architecture <architecture-overview>`,
while the heavy lifting is done by the {ref}`services <executor-cookbook>` themselves.
In particular, each Flow also launches a {ref}`Gateway <gateway>` service, which can expose all other services through an API that you define.

The most important methods of the `Flow` object are the following:

| Method                                                       | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
|--------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| {meth}`~jina.Flow.add`                                       | Adds an Executor to the Flow                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| {meth}`~jina.Flow.start()`                                   | Starts the Flow. This will start all its Executors and check if they are ready to be used.                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| {meth}`~jina.Flow.close()`                                   | Stops and closes the Flow. This will stop and shutdown all its Executors.                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `with` context manager                                       | Uses the Flow as a context manager. It will automatically start and stop your Flow.                                                                                                                                                                                                   |                                                                |
| {meth}`~jina.Flow.plot()`                                    | Visualizes the Flow. Helpful for building complex pipelines.                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| {meth}`~jina.clients.mixin.PostMixin.post()`                 | Sends requests to the Flow API.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| {meth}`~jina.Flow.block()`                                   | Blocks execution until the program is terminated. This is useful to keep the Flow alive so it can be used from other places (clients, etc).                                                                                                                                          |
| {meth}`~jina.Flow.to_docker_compose_yaml()`                  | Generates a Docker-Compose file listing all Executors as services.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| {meth}`~jina.Flow.to_kubernetes_yaml()`                      | Generates Kubernetes configuration files in `<output_directory>`. Based on your local Jina version, Executor Hub may rebuild the Docker image during the YAML generation process. If you do not wish to rebuild the image, set the environment variable `JINA_HUB_NO_IMAGE_REBUILD`.                                                                                                                                   |
| {meth}`~jina.clients.mixin.HealthCheckMixin.is_flow_ready()` | Check if the Flow is ready to process requests. Returns a boolean indicating the readiness.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |

## Why should you use a Flow?

Once you've learned DocumentArray and Executor, you can split a big task into small independent modules and services.
But you need to chain them together to bring real value and build and serve an application. Flows enable you to do exactly this.

- Flows connect microservices (Executors) to build a service with proper client/server style interface over HTTP, gRPC, or WebSockets.

- Flows let you scale these Executors independently to match your requirements.

- Flows let you easily use other cloud-native orchestrators, such as Kubernetes, to manage your service.

## Minimum working example

````{tab} Pythonic style


```python
from jina import Flow, Executor, requests, Document


class MyExecutor(Executor):
    @requests(on='/bar')
    def foo(self, docs, **kwargs):
        print(docs)


f = Flow().add(name='myexec1', uses=MyExecutor)

with f:
    f.post(on='/bar', inputs=Document(), on_done=print)
```


````

````{tab} Flow-as-a-Service style

Server:

```python
from jina import Flow, Executor, requests


class MyExecutor(Executor):
    @requests(on='/bar')
    def foo(self, docs, **kwargs):
        print(docs)


f = Flow(port=12345).add(name='myexec1', uses=MyExecutor)

with f:
    f.block()
```

Client:

```python
from jina import Client, Document

c = Client(port=12345)
c.post(on='/bar', inputs=Document(), on_done=print)
```

````

````{tab} Load from YAML

`my.yml`:
```yaml
jtype: Flow
executors:
  - name: myexec1
    uses: FooExecutor
    py_modules: exec.py
```

`exec.py`:
```python
from jina import Executor, requests, Document, DocumentArray


class FooExecutor(Executor):
    @requests
    def foo(self, docs: DocumentArray, **kwargs):
        docs.append(Document(text='foo was here'))
```

```python
from jina import Flow, Document

f = Flow.load_config('my.yml')

with f:
    f.post(on='/bar', inputs=Document(), on_done=print)
```

````




```{toctree}
:hidden:

basics
add-executors
add-conditioning
scale-out
hot-reload
handle-exceptions
readiness
health-check
instrumentation
troubleshooting-on-multiprocess
yaml-spec
```

Commit message:

docs: caution users about exceptions inside Flow context (#5615)
Co-authored-by: Alex Cureton-Griffiths <alexcg1@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/concepts/flow/index.md, after:

(flow-cookbook)=
# {fas}`network-wired` Flow

A {class}`~jina.Flow` orchestrates {class}`~jina.Executor`s into a processing pipeline to accomplish a task.
Documents "flow" through the pipeline and are processed by Executors.

You can think of Flow as an interface to configure and launch your {ref}`microservice architecture <architecture-overview>`,
while the heavy lifting is done by the {ref}`services <executor-cookbook>` themselves.
In particular, each Flow also launches a {ref}`Gateway <gateway>` service, which can expose all other services through an API that you define.

The most important methods of the `Flow` object are the following:

| Method                                                       | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
|--------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| {meth}`~jina.Flow.add`                                       | Adds an Executor to the Flow                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| {meth}`~jina.Flow.start()`                                   | Starts the Flow. This will start all its Executors and check if they are ready to be used.                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| {meth}`~jina.Flow.close()`                                   | Stops and closes the Flow. This will stop and shutdown all its Executors.                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| `with` context manager                                       | Uses the Flow as a context manager. It will automatically start and stop your Flow.                                                                                                                                                                                                   |                                                                |
| {meth}`~jina.Flow.plot()`                                    | Visualizes the Flow. Helpful for building complex pipelines.                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| {meth}`~jina.clients.mixin.PostMixin.post()`                 | Sends requests to the Flow API.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| {meth}`~jina.Flow.block()`                                   | Blocks execution until the program is terminated. This is useful to keep the Flow alive so it can be used from other places (clients, etc).                                                                                                                                          |
| {meth}`~jina.Flow.to_docker_compose_yaml()`                  | Generates a Docker-Compose file listing all Executors as services.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| {meth}`~jina.Flow.to_kubernetes_yaml()`                      | Generates Kubernetes configuration files in `<output_directory>`. Based on your local Jina version, Executor Hub may rebuild the Docker image during the YAML generation process. If you do not wish to rebuild the image, set the environment variable `JINA_HUB_NO_IMAGE_REBUILD`.                                                                                                                                   |
| {meth}`~jina.clients.mixin.HealthCheckMixin.is_flow_ready()` | Check if the Flow is ready to process requests. Returns a boolean indicating the readiness.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |

## Why should you use a Flow?

Once you've learned DocumentArray and Executor, you can split a big task into small independent modules and services.
But you need to chain them together to bring real value and build and serve an application. Flows enable you to do exactly this.

- Flows connect microservices (Executors) to build a service with proper client/server style interface over HTTP, gRPC, or WebSockets.

- Flows let you scale these Executors independently to match your requirements.

- Flows let you easily use other cloud-native orchestrators, such as Kubernetes, to manage your service.

## Minimum working example

````{tab} Pythonic style


```python
from jina import Flow, Executor, requests, Document


class MyExecutor(Executor):
    @requests(on='/bar')
    def foo(self, docs, **kwargs):
        print(docs)


f = Flow().add(name='myexec1', uses=MyExecutor)

with f:
    f.post(on='/bar', inputs=Document(), on_done=print)
```


````

````{tab} Flow-as-a-Service style

Server:

```python
from jina import Flow, Executor, requests


class MyExecutor(Executor):
    @requests(on='/bar')
    def foo(self, docs, **kwargs):
        print(docs)


f = Flow(port=12345).add(name='myexec1', uses=MyExecutor)

with f:
    f.block()
```

Client:

```python
from jina import Client, Document

c = Client(port=12345)
c.post(on='/bar', inputs=Document(), on_done=print)
```

````

````{tab} Load from YAML

`my.yml`:
```yaml
jtype: Flow
executors:
  - name: myexec1
    uses: FooExecutor
    py_modules: exec.py
```

`exec.py`:
```python
from jina import Executor, requests, Document, DocumentArray


class FooExecutor(Executor):
    @requests
    def foo(self, docs: DocumentArray, **kwargs):
        docs.append(Document(text='foo was here'))
```

```python
from jina import Flow, Document

f = Flow.load_config('my.yml')

with f:
    try:
        f.post(on='/bar', inputs=Document(), on_done=print)
    except Exception as ex:
        # handle exception
        pass
```

````

```{caution}
The statement `with f:` starts the Flow, and exiting the indented with block stops the Flow, including all Executors defined in it.
Exceptions raised inside the `with f:` block will close the Flow context manager. If you don't want this, use a `try...except` block to surround the statements that could potentially raise an exception.
```



```{toctree}
:hidden:

basics
add-executors
add-conditioning
scale-out
hot-reload
handle-exceptions
readiness
health-check
instrumentation
troubleshooting-on-multiprocess
yaml-spec
```
