docs/docarray-v2.md, before:

(docarray-v2)=
# (Beta) New DocArray support

Jina provides early support for [DocArray>=0.30](https://github.com/docarray/docarray) which
is a rewrite of DocArray. This new version makes the dataclass feature of DocArray v1 a first-class citizen and for this 
purpose it is built on top of [Pydantic](https://pydantic-docs.helpmanual.io/). An important shift is that 
the new DocArray adapts to users' data, whereas DocArray v1 forces user to adapt to the Document schema.

```{warning} Beta support
New DocArray syntax is available on DocArray version beyond 0.30. Not every feature in Jina has been adapted to the new DocArray versions, but some of them are.
So you can consider that the support of this new version is in Beta. The plan is to keep compatibility with 2 sets of versions after the migration 
is achieved.
```

## New DocArray schema

At the heart of DocArray>=0.30 is a new schema that is more flexible and expressive than the original DocArray schema.

You can refer to the [DocArray README](https://github.com/docarray/docarray) for more details. 
Please note that also the names of data structure change in the new version of DocArray.

On the Jina side, this flexibility extends to every Executor, where you can now customize input and output schemas:

- With DocArray<0.30 (the version currently used by default in Jina), a Document has a fixed schema and an Executor performs in-place operations on it. 
- With DocArray>=0.30, an Executor defines its own input and output schemas. It also provides several predefined schemas that you can use out of the box.

## New Executor API

To reflect the change with DocArray v2, the Executor API now supports schema definition. The 
design is inspired by [FastAPI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/). 


```{code-block} python
---
emphasize-lines: 17,18
---
from jina import Executor, requests
from docarray import DocList, BaseDoc
from docarray.documents import ImageDoc
from docarray.typing import AnyTensor

import numpy as np

class InputDoc(BaseDoc):
    img: ImageDoc

class OutputDoc(BaseDoc):
    embedding: AnyTensor

class MyExec(Executor):
    @requests(on='/bar')
    def bar(
        self, docs: DocList[InputDoc], **kwargs
    ) -> DocumentArray[OutputDoc]:
        docs_return = DocList[OutputDoc](
            [OutputDoc(embedding=np.zeros((100, 1))) for _ in range(len(docs))]
        )
        return docs_return
```

For our Executor we define:

- An input schema `InputDoc` and an output schema `OutputDoc`, which are Documents. 
- The `bar` endpoint, which takes a DocumentArray of `InputDoc` as input and returns a DocumentArray of
`OutputDoc`. 

Note that the type hint is actually more that just a hint -- the Executor uses it to infer the actual
schema of the endpoint.

You can also explicitly define the schema of the endpoint by using the `request_schema` and
`response_schema` parameters of the `requests` decorator:


```{code-block} python
---
emphasize-lines: 4,5
---
class MyExec(Executor):
    @requests(
        on='/bar',
        request_schema=DocList[InputDoc],
        response_schema=DocList[OutputDoc],
    )
    def bar(self, docs, **kwargs):
        docs_return = DocList[OutputDoc](
            [OutputDoc(embedding=np.zeros((100, 1))) for _ in range(len(docs))]
        )
        return docs_return
```

If there is no `request_schema` and `response_schema`, the type hint is used to infer the schema. If both exist, `request_schema`
and `response_schema` will be used.


## Client API

In the client, you similarly specify the schema that you expect the Flow to return. You can pass the return type by using the `return_type` parameter in the `client.post` method:

```{code-block} python
---
emphasize-lines: 7
---
from jina import Deployment

with Deployment(uses=MyExec) as dep:
    docs = dep.post(
        on='/bar',
        inputs=InputDoc(img=ImageDoc(tensor=np.zeros((3, 224, 224)))),
        return_type=DocList[OutputDoc],
    )
    assert docs[0].embedding.shape == (100, 1)
    assert docs.__class__.document_type == OutputDoc
```


## Compatible Features

Jina is working to offer full compatibility of the Jina framework with the power of the new DocArray version.

At this moment, these are the features supported if the APIs described in the previous sections are used.

- All the features offered by {ref}`Deployment <deployment>` where a single Executor is served and {ref}`scaled <scale-out>`. This support includes the usage of both
HTTP and gRPC protocols and the usage of both of them at the same type.

- When combining multiple Deployments in a pipeline using a {ref}`Flow <flow-cookbook>`, multiple limitations exist at this moment:

    - Only gRPC protocol is supported.
    - Only linear Flows are supported, no topologies using bifurcations can be used at the moment.

````{admonition} Note
:class: note

With DocArray 0.30 support, Jina introduced the concept of input/output schema at the Executor level. In order to chain multiple Executor into a Flow you always need to make sure that the output schema of an Executor is the same as the Input of the Executor that follows him in the Flow


```{note}

## See also

- [DocArray-v2](https://github.com/docarray/docarray) README
- [Pydantic](https://pydantic-docs.helpmanual.io/) documentation for more details on the schema definition

```

Commit message:

docs: add note about jina hub

docs/docarray-v2.md, after:

(docarray-v2)=
# (Beta) New DocArray support

Jina provides early support for [DocArray>=0.30](https://github.com/docarray/docarray) which
is a rewrite of DocArray. This new version makes the dataclass feature of DocArray v1 a first-class citizen and for this 
purpose it is built on top of [Pydantic](https://pydantic-docs.helpmanual.io/). An important shift is that 
the new DocArray adapts to users' data, whereas DocArray v1 forces user to adapt to the Document schema.

```{warning} Beta support
New DocArray syntax is available on DocArray version beyond 0.30. Not every feature in Jina has been adapted to the new DocArray versions, but some of them are.
So you can consider that the support of this new version is in Beta. The plan is to keep compatibility with 2 sets of versions after the migration 
is achieved.
```

## New DocArray schema

At the heart of DocArray>=0.30 is a new schema that is more flexible and expressive than the original DocArray schema.

You can refer to the [DocArray README](https://github.com/docarray/docarray) for more details. 
Please note that also the names of data structure change in the new version of DocArray.

On the Jina side, this flexibility extends to every Executor, where you can now customize input and output schemas:

- With DocArray<0.30 (the version currently used by default in Jina), a Document has a fixed schema and an Executor performs in-place operations on it. 
- With DocArray>=0.30, an Executor defines its own input and output schemas. It also provides several predefined schemas that you can use out of the box.

## New Executor API

To reflect the change with DocArray v2, the Executor API now supports schema definition. The 
design is inspired by [FastAPI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/). 


```{code-block} python
---
emphasize-lines: 17,18
---
from jina import Executor, requests
from docarray import DocList, BaseDoc
from docarray.documents import ImageDoc
from docarray.typing import AnyTensor

import numpy as np

class InputDoc(BaseDoc):
    img: ImageDoc

class OutputDoc(BaseDoc):
    embedding: AnyTensor

class MyExec(Executor):
    @requests(on='/bar')
    def bar(
        self, docs: DocList[InputDoc], **kwargs
    ) -> DocumentArray[OutputDoc]:
        docs_return = DocList[OutputDoc](
            [OutputDoc(embedding=np.zeros((100, 1))) for _ in range(len(docs))]
        )
        return docs_return
```

For our Executor we define:

- An input schema `InputDoc` and an output schema `OutputDoc`, which are Documents. 
- The `bar` endpoint, which takes a DocumentArray of `InputDoc` as input and returns a DocumentArray of
`OutputDoc`. 

Note that the type hint is actually more that just a hint -- the Executor uses it to infer the actual
schema of the endpoint.

You can also explicitly define the schema of the endpoint by using the `request_schema` and
`response_schema` parameters of the `requests` decorator:


```{code-block} python
---
emphasize-lines: 4,5
---
class MyExec(Executor):
    @requests(
        on='/bar',
        request_schema=DocList[InputDoc],
        response_schema=DocList[OutputDoc],
    )
    def bar(self, docs, **kwargs):
        docs_return = DocList[OutputDoc](
            [OutputDoc(embedding=np.zeros((100, 1))) for _ in range(len(docs))]
        )
        return docs_return
```

If there is no `request_schema` and `response_schema`, the type hint is used to infer the schema. If both exist, `request_schema`
and `response_schema` will be used.


## Client API

In the client, you similarly specify the schema that you expect the Flow to return. You can pass the return type by using the `return_type` parameter in the `client.post` method:

```{code-block} python
---
emphasize-lines: 7
---
from jina import Deployment

with Deployment(uses=MyExec) as dep:
    docs = dep.post(
        on='/bar',
        inputs=InputDoc(img=ImageDoc(tensor=np.zeros((3, 224, 224)))),
        return_type=DocList[OutputDoc],
    )
    assert docs[0].embedding.shape == (100, 1)
    assert docs.__class__.document_type == OutputDoc
```


## Compatible Features

Jina is working to offer full compatibility of the Jina framework with the power of the new DocArray version.

At this moment, these are the features supported if the APIs described in the previous sections are used.

- All the features offered by {ref}`Deployment <deployment>` where a single Executor is served and {ref}`scaled <scale-out>`. This support includes the usage of both
HTTP and gRPC protocols and the usage of both of them at the same type.

- When combining multiple Deployments in a pipeline using a {ref}`Flow <flow-cookbook>`, multiple limitations exist at this moment:

    - Only gRPC protocol is supported.
    - Only linear Flows are supported, no topologies using bifurcations can be used at the moment.

````{admonition} Note
:class: note

With DocArray 0.30 support, Jina introduced the concept of input/output schema at the Executor level. In order to chain multiple Executor into a Flow you always need to make sure that the output schema of an Executor is the same as the Input of the Executor that follows him in the Flow
```

````{admonition} Note
:class: note

For now, Jina Hub will not automatically build your Docker images with the new DocArray version. If this is needed, you need to specifically provide your 
Dockerfile where the docarray version >=0.30 is specifically installed.
```

```{note}

## See also

- [DocArray-v2](https://github.com/docarray/docarray) README
- [Pydantic](https://pydantic-docs.helpmanual.io/) documentation for more details on the schema definition

```
