# Hub Portal

Hub is a marketplace for Executors. It allows everyone to share their Executors and use others' Executors. You can check the previous [tutorial](../create-hub-executor) if you want to rehearse the creation of an Executor.

[Hub portal](https://hub.jina.ai) gives you a birdview of all Hub Executors. You can walk around here and find Executors that can help you to build your neural search applications.

## Catalog Page

The very first and main page is a list of all Executors created by all Jina developers all over the world.

```{figure} ../../../.github/hub-website-list.png
:align: center
```

You can browse in two different sorts by switching the tab. 

- Popular: based on how much people like it and how many downloads it have.
- Recent: based on recent update time.

If you want to search some specific Executor or some Executors for specific domain, then search is the right thing to use.

You can type plain text to the search input to search specific Executor:

```{figure} ../../../.github/hub-website-search-1.png
:align: center
```

You can also type some text prefixed with character `:`, such as `:image` to search all Executors that are related to image search domain.

```{figure} ../../../.github/hub-website-search-2.png
:align: center
```

## Detail Page

Congrats you have found some Executors that you are interested! Then how to get more detail about this Executor? Such as description and parameters of this Executor. You can find it all in Detail Page. 

```{figure} ../../../.github/hub-website-detail.png
:align: center
```

There are several tabs you can explore: Readme, Arguments, Tag and Dependencies.

Readme introduces basic information about this Executor, how this Executor works internally, it's basic usage.

Arguments describes detailed API of this Executor. It's auto generated by Python docstring. So it's always synced with the codebase. And the Executor producers don't need to write it separately.

```{figure} ../../../.github/hub-website-detail-arguments.png
:align: center
```

Tag lists all the available tags this Executor has, you can choose one of them. And it also give the code snippet to simplify your usage.

```{figure} ../../../.github/hub-website-detail-tag.png
:align: center
```

Dependencies lists all Python dependencies this Executor introduces.

```{figure} ../../../.github/hub-website-detail-dep.png
:align: center
```

